Identification Information:  
	Citation:  
		Citation Information:  
			Originator:  Seafloor Mapping Lab- California State University Monterey Bay
			Publication Date:  Unpublished Material
			Publication Time:  Unknown
			Title:  GMA1geo
			Geospatial Data Presentation Form:  view
	Description:  
		Abstract:  This California continental shelf geologic data set represents the current state of knowledge about the distribution of seafloor substrate types for the entire California continental shelf.  The data series is comprised of seven adjacent, but discrete map sections. Boundaries of seafloor geology type are depicted as polygon themes.
		Purpose:  This project created digital GIS format versions of California continental shelf geology hardcopy maps originally produced by the Division of Mines and Geology, the U.S. Geological Survey and the California Coastal Commission. In addition, geologic and bathymetric data were interpreted further to produce polygons representing habitat boundaries.
		Supplemental Information:  Original data developed by the Division of Mines and Geology, the U.S. Geological Survey and the California Coastal Commission. The principle purpose of the original DMG/USGS/CCC study was to acquire and compile all readily available geologic data for the California continental margin in a standard format. These nondigital data were presented as paper planimetric map sheets (NOAA/NOS 1:250,000 scale). For the current project, original mylars used to produce the geologic map series were scanned, and the resulting rasters were cleaned, georeferenced (UTM Zone 10 or 11, WGS84), and vectorized using TNTmips GIS software. Vector polygons and lines were then attributed and exported in ArcView shapefile format. Data covers an area from Mexico north to Oregon and from the California coastline west to the edge of the continental margin.
	Time Period of Content:  
		Time Period Information:  
			Multiple Dates/Times:  
				Single Date/Time:  
					Calendar Date:  3/31/2001
				Single Date/Time:  
					Calendar Date:  1987
		Currentness Reference:  publication date
	Status:  
		Progress:  Complete
		Maintenance and Update Frequency:  None planned
	Spatial Domain:  
		Bounding Coordinates:  
			West Bounding Coordinate:  -118.00135
			East Bounding Coordinate:  -117.09723
			North Bounding Coordinate:  33.65872
			South Bounding Coordinate:  32.27879
	Keywords:  
		Theme:  
			Theme Keyword Thesaurus:  Geology Map Series Thesaurus
			Theme Keyword:  geologic features
			Theme Keyword:  marine
			Theme Keyword:  GIS
			Theme Keyword:  ephemeral
			Theme Keyword:  structural
			Theme Keyword:  habitat
			Theme Keyword:  subsurface
			Theme Keyword:  digital
			Theme Keyword:  mapping
			Theme Keyword:  symbology
			Theme Keyword:  seafloor
	Access Constraints:  To be determined by the California Department of Fish and Game.
	Use Constraints:  To be determined by the California Department of Fish and Game.
	Point of Contact:  
		Contact Information:  
			Contact Organization Primary:  
				Contact Organization:  Seafloor Mapping Lab, California State University Monterey Bay
			Contact Address:  
				Address Type:  mailing address
				Address:  California State University Monterey Bay, Institute for Earth Systems Science and Policy,100 Campus Center, Bldg 46A
				City:  Seaside
				State or Province:  California
				Postal Code:  93955
				Country:  USA
			Contact Voice Telephone:  (831) 582-3529
			Contact Facsimile Telephone:  (831) 582-3073
			Contact Electronic Mail Address:  rikk_kvitek@monterey.edu
	Browse Graphic:  
	Data Set Credit:  Digital data processed by Seafloor Mapping Lab at California State University Monterey Bay, and the Center for Habitat Studies at Moss Landing Marine Laboratories. Original hardcopy data from Geology of the California Continental Margin: Geologic Map Series, by Kennedy, Greene, and Clark, 1987
Data Quality Information:  
	Lineage:  
		Source Information:  
			Source Citation:  
				Citation Information:  
					Originator:  Kennedy, M.P., H.G. Greene, and S.H. Clark
					Publication Date:  1987
					Title:  Geology of the California Continental Margin: Geologic Map Series
					Geospatial Data Presentation Form:  map
					Series Information:  
						Series Name:  Bulletin 207
					Publication Information:  
						Publication Place:  Sacramento, California
						Publisher:  California Department of Conservation
			Source Time Period of Content:  
				Source Currentness Reference:  publication date
			Source Citation Abbreviation:  GCCM
		Process Step:  
			Process Description:  Geologic features were rendered from archived mylar traces of the original mapping study (Kennedy et al 1987). Mylar sheet(s) were scanned and recorded as TIFF image(s). The image(s) was then imported into advanced image processing/analytical software (TNTmips®, MicroImages, Inc.) and run through a series of data conversions. 
				
				Archive mylars were scanned using an adjusted black/white threshold mode to capture all lines. The raster image(s) was examined to detect any obvious distortions of the map and then saved in TIFF format. Using TNTmips® v 6.3 software (MicroImages, Inc), the unprojected TIFF was imported and georeferenced. Coordinates for the control points were taken from the hardcopy Geology Series map(s) grids. Raster to vector conversion (auto-trace function), vector edits (polygon smoothing, sliver polygon elimination, vertices adjustment), object attributing and export to ArcView® (ESRI) were performed within TNTmips®. Special attention was paid to processing lines of inferred contact. Geology and subsurface polygons, and structural (linework) features were extracted and saved to separate files. Feature merge, union, split, and edge-matching functions were performed in ArcView® v 3.2. Attribute tables were reviewed and updated following each of these processes.
				
				A workbook (avls.xls) was created in Microsoft Excel® 2000 (9.03821 SR-1) containing two worksheets; one for the geology themes and another for the subsurface (ephemeral) themes.  These worksheets contain an aggregate of all features on each of the geology (Areas 1-5, 7) and subsurface (Areas 1,2; 4-7) themes.  Using the Legend Editor in Arcview® 3.2a, colors and patterns were chosen for polygons depicting geologic and subsurface features to match those used in Kennedy et al. “Geology of the California Continental Margin” (USGS Bulletin 207 and Maps of Areas 1-7, sheets 1 of 4).  The patterns and colors chosen for each feature were included in the appropriate worksheet as was the presence or absence of each feature among the map areas (see avl.xls).  Using the avls.xls spreadsheets as a template, master avls were created for all geology and subsurface themes.  These master avls contain all features present in each map area (geomaster.avl and subsurface.avl).  
				
				For detailed procedures of data processing in TNTmips® v6.3 and ArcView® v3.2, please direct requests to the metadata coordinator.
			Process Date:  3/31/01
			Process Contact:  
				Contact Information:  
					Contact Person Primary:  
						Contact Person:  Matthew Johnson
						Contact Organization:  Seafloor Mapping Lab, California State University Monterey Bay
					Contact Position:  GIS Analyst
					Contact Address:  
						Address Type:  mailing and physical address
						Address:  California State University Monterey Bay, Institute for Earth Systems Science and Policy,100 Campus Center, Bldg 46A
						City:  Seaside
						State or Province:  California
						Postal Code:  93955
						Country:  USA
					Contact Facsimile Telephone:  831-582-3073
					Contact Electronic Mail Address:  matthew_johnson@monterey.edu
	Cloud Cover:  0
Spatial Data Organization Information:  
	Indirect Spatial Reference:  California Continental Shelf
	Direct Spatial Reference Method:  Vector
	Point and Vector Object Information:  
		SDTS Terms Description:  
			SDTS Point and Vector Object Type:  G-polygon
			Point and Vector Object Count:  105
Spatial Reference Information:  
	Horizontal Coordinate System Definition:  
		Planar:  
			Grid Coordinate System:  
				Grid Coordinate System Name:  Universal Transverse Mercator 1983
				Universal Transverse Mercator:  
					UTM Zone Number:  11
					Transverse Mercator:  
						Scale Factor at Central Meridian:  0.9996
						Longitude of Central Meridian:  -117
						Latitude of Projection Origin:  0
						False Easting:  500000
						False Northing:  0
			Planar Coordinate Information:  
				Planar Coordinate Encoding Method:  Coordinate Pair
				Coordinate Representation:  
					Abscissa Resolution:  1
					Ordinate Resolution:  1
				Planar Distance Units:  m
		Geodetic Model:  
			Horizontal Datum Name:  WGS84
			Ellipsoid Name:  WGS84
			Semi-major Axis:  6378137
			Denominator of Flattening Ratio:  298.257223563
Entity and Attribute Information:  
	Detailed Description:  
		Entity Type:  
			Entity Type Label:  Captured
		Attribute:  
			Attribute Label:  GEO_UNIT
			Attribute Definition:  Geologic bottom types using standard stratigraphic units and unit codes (North American Stratigraphic Code).
	Overview Description:  
		Entity and Attribute Overview:  Geologic bottom types using standard stratigraphic units and unit codes (North American Stratigraphic Code).
Metadata Reference Information:  
	Metadata Date:  3/31/2001
	Metadata Review Date:  
	Metadata Future Review Date:  
	Metadata Contact:  
		Contact Information:  
			Contact Person Primary:  
				Contact Person:  Carrie Bretz
				Contact Organization:  Seafloor Mapping Lab, California State University Monterey Bay
			Contact Position:  GIS Analyst and Metadata Manager, Geology Map Series Project Manager
			Contact Address:  
				Address Type:  mailing and physical address
				Address:  California State University Monterey Bay, Institute for Earth Systems Science and Policy,100 Campus Center, Bldg 46A
				City:  Seaside
				State or Province:  CA
				Postal Code:  93955
				Country:  USA
			Contact Voice Telephone:  831-582-4197
			Contact Facsimile Telephone:  831-582-3073
			Contact Electronic Mail Address:  carrie_bretz@monterey.edu
	Metadata Standard Name:  FGDC Content Standards for Digital Geospatial Metadata
	Metadata Standard Version:  2.0
	Metadata Access Constraints:  None
	Metadata Use Constraints:  None
	Metadata Security Information:  
		Metadata Security Classification:  Unclassified
