Identification Information:  
	Citation:  
		Citation Information:  
			Originator:  Seafloor Mapping Lab- California State University Monterey Bay
			Publication Date:  Unpublished Material
			Publication Time:  Unknown
			Title:  gma7hab
			Geospatial Data Presentation Form:  view
	Description:  
		Abstract:  This California continental shelf geologic data set represents the current state of knowledge about the distribution of seafloor substrate types for the entire California continental shelf.  The data series is comprised of seven adjacent, but discrete map sections. Boundaries of seafloor geology type are depicted as polygon themes.
		Purpose:  This project created digital GIS format versions of California continental shelf geology hardcopy maps originally produced by the Division of Mines and Geology, the U.S. Geological Survey and the California Coastal Commission. In addition, geologic and bathymetric data were interpreted further to produce polygons representing habitat boundaries.
		Supplemental Information:  Original data developed by the Division of Mines and Geology, the U.S. Geological Survey and the California Coastal Commission. The principle purpose of the original DMG/USGS/CCC study was to acquire and compile all readily available geologic data for the California continental margin in a standard format. These nondigital data were presented as paper planimetric map sheets (NOAA/NOS 1:250,000 scale). For the current project, original mylars used to produce the geologic map series were scanned, and the resulting rasters were cleaned, georeferenced (UTM Zone 10 or 11, WGS84), and vectorized using TNTmips GIS software. Vector polygons and lines were then attributed and exported in ArcView shapefile format. Data covers an area from Mexico north to Oregon and from the California coastline west to the edge of the continental margin.
	Time Period of Content:  
		Time Period Information:  
			Multiple Dates/Times:  
				Single Date/Time:  
					Calendar Date:  3/31/2001
				Single Date/Time:  
					Calendar Date:  1987
		Currentness Reference:  publication date
	Status:  
		Progress:  Complete
		Maintenance and Update Frequency:  None planned
	Spatial Domain:  
		Bounding Coordinates:  
			West Bounding Coordinate:  324239.374977542
			East Bounding Coordinate:  180
			North Bounding Coordinate:  90
			South Bounding Coordinate:  4517261.99997754
	Keywords:  
		Theme:  
			Theme Keyword Thesaurus:  Geology Map Series Thesaurus
			Theme Keyword:  geologic features
			Theme Keyword:  marine
			Theme Keyword:  GIS
			Theme Keyword:  ephemeral
			Theme Keyword:  structural
			Theme Keyword:  habitat
			Theme Keyword:  subsurface
			Theme Keyword:  digital
			Theme Keyword:  mapping
			Theme Keyword:  symbology
			Theme Keyword:  seafloor
	Access Constraints:  To be determined by the California Department of Fish and Game.
	Use Constraints:  To be determined by the California Department of Fish and Game.
	Point of Contact:  
		Contact Information:  
			Contact Organization Primary:  
				Contact Organization:  Center for Habitat Studies
			Contact Address:  
				Address Type:  mailing address
				Address:  Moss Landing Marine Laboratories
					8272 Moss Landing Rd.
				City:  Moss Landing
				State or Province:  California
				Postal Code:  95039
				Country:  USA
			Contact Voice Telephone:  (831) 633-7268 (Habitat Studies)
			Contact Facsimile Telephone:  (831) 633-7268 (Habitat Studies)
			Contact Electronic Mail Address:  greene@mlml.calstate.edu
	Browse Graphic:  
	Data Set Credit:  Habitat data processed by the Center for Habitat Studies at Moss Landing Marine Laboratories.
Data Quality Information:  
	Lineage:  
		Process Step:  
			Process Description:  Interpretation of the geology into habitat types was done in several steps.  First, all digital geologic units (polygons) were converted to gross habitat type polygons in ArcView 3.2a.  Second, these polygons were then printed out and checked for continuity and consistency with habitat descriptions.  Third, a symbology and codification for distinguishing habitat types was then developed.  Fourth, using codes, bathymetry, and the knowledge that some lithologic units as mapped on the California Continental Margin Map Series may not crop out everywhere on the sea floor where they are mapped, habitat boundaries were adjusted to give the most probably location and outline of the units.  Finally, the habitats and maps were checked for errors ("busts") to assure a seamless connection between map sheets and printed out as a final copy.
				A code was written to easily distinguish each habitat type and to facilitate ease of use and queries in a GIS.  This code is based on the deep-water habitat characterization scheme developed by Greene et al. (1999).
			Process Date:  3/31/01
			Process Contact:  
				Contact Information:  
					Contact Person Primary:  
						Contact Person:  Joe Bizzarro
						Contact Organization:  Center for Habitat Studies
					Contact Position:  GIS Manager, Geology Map Series Project Manager
					Contact Address:  
						Address Type:  mailing and physical address
						Address:  Moss Landing Marine Laboratories
							8272 Moss Landing Rd.
						City:  Moss Landing
						State or Province:  California
						Postal Code:  95039
						Country:  USA
					Contact Voice Telephone:  (831) 632-4419 (Ichthyology)
						(831) 633-7268 (Habitat Studies)
					Contact Facsimile Telephone:  (831) 633-7268 (Habitat Studies)
					Contact Electronic Mail Address:  jbizzarro@mlml.calstate.edu
	Cloud Cover:  0
Spatial Data Organization Information:  
	Indirect Spatial Reference:  California Continental Shelf
	Direct Spatial Reference Method:  Vector
	Point and Vector Object Information:  
		SDTS Terms Description:  
			SDTS Point and Vector Object Type:  G-polygon
			Point and Vector Object Count:  6
Spatial Reference Information:  
	Horizontal Coordinate System Definition:  
		Planar:  
			Grid Coordinate System:  
				Grid Coordinate System Name:  Universal Transverse Mercator 1983
				Universal Transverse Mercator:  
					UTM Zone Number:  10
					Transverse Mercator:  
						Scale Factor at Central Meridian:  0.9996
						Longitude of Central Meridian:  -123
						Latitude of Projection Origin:  0
						False Easting:  500000
						False Northing:  0
			Planar Coordinate Information:  
				Planar Coordinate Encoding Method:  Coordinate Pair
				Coordinate Representation:  
					Abscissa Resolution:  0
					Ordinate Resolution:  0
				Planar Distance Units:  m
		Geodetic Model:  
			Horizontal Datum Name:  WGS84
			Ellipsoid Name:  WGS84
			Semi-major Axis:  6378137
			Denominator of Flattening Ratio:  298.257223563
Entity and Attribute Information:  
	Detailed Description:  
		Entity Type:  
			Entity Type Label:  Captured
		Attribute:  
			Attribute Label:  Bottom
			Attribute Definition:  Short description of the bottom induration attributes
		Attribute:  
			Attribute Label:  Bottom_id
			Attribute Definition:  Second letter of habitat characterization code to designate the bottom induration. Attribute records for the field consist of, s, h, and m.
		Attribute:  
			Attribute Label:  Geo_confid
			Attribute Definition:  The level of confidence of the geoglogic unit. This will either be defined, questionabley defined, or unclassfied.
		Attribute:  
			Attribute Label:  Geo_unit
			Attribute Definition:  Geologic unit
		Attribute:  
			Attribute Label:  Hab_confid
			Attribute Definition:  The level of confidence of the habitat type. This will either be defined, questionabley define, or unclassfied.
		Attribute:  
			Attribute Label:  Hab_type
			Attribute Definition:  Habitat type. This consist of the sequence of habitat “id” s.
		Attribute:  
			Attribute Label:  Mdfr
			Attribute Definition:  Short description of the modifers.
		Attribute:  
			Attribute Label:  Mdfr_id
			Attribute Definition:  Third or fourth letter of the habitat characterization code to describe the texture bedform, biology, or rocky type and consists of _u, _c, _f, _m, _d, _v/g, _b, _h, _r, _s, and _a. Undersocore preceding the letter denotes subscript.
		Attribute:  
			Attribute Label:  Mega
			Attribute Definition:  Short description of the megahabitat attributes
		Attribute:  
			Attribute Label:  Mega_id
			Attribute Definition:  First letter of the habitat characterization code to designate the megahabitat type. Attibute records for this field consist of  S, F, A, P, B, R. These will be in capital case letters.
		Attribute:  
			Attribute Label:  Mso_Mrc
			Attribute Definition:  Short description of the mes- or macrohabitat types.
		Attribute:  
			Attribute Label:  Mso_Mrc_id
			Attribute Definition:  Third or absent (unclassified) letter of the habitat characteriztion code to designate the meso- or macrohabitat type. Attibute records for this field consist of  c, m, b, g, l, f, p/b, r, o, w, i, t, s, and e.
		Attribute:  
			Attribute Label:  Shape
			Attribute Definition:  Polygon
	Overview Description:  
		Entity and Attribute Overview:  The geologic map area themes (gma1-gma5, gma7) were used as templates in ArcView 3.2a to create habitat maps.  Polygons depicting geologic units were modified (joined with pre-existing units of different geologic type but the same habitat type, deleted when appropriate, and renamed based of Greene et al. (1999) interpretations.
		Entity and Attribute Detail Citation:  Greene et al. (1999)
Metadata Reference Information:  
	Metadata Date:  3/31/2001
	Metadata Review Date:  
	Metadata Future Review Date:  
	Metadata Contact:  
		Contact Information:  
			Contact Person Primary:  
				Contact Person:  Carrie Bretz
				Contact Organization:  Seafloor Mapping Lab, California State University Monterey Bay
			Contact Position:  GIS Analyst and Metadata Manager, Geology Map Series Project Manager
			Contact Address:  
				Address Type:  mailing and physical address
				Address:  California State University Monterey Bay, Institute for Earth Systems Science and Policy,100 Campus Center, Bldg 46A
				City:  Seaside
				State or Province:  CA
				Postal Code:  93955
				Country:  USA
			Contact Voice Telephone:  831-582-4197
			Contact Facsimile Telephone:  831-582-3073
			Contact Electronic Mail Address:  carrie_bretz@monterey.edu
	Metadata Standard Name:  FGDC Content Standards for Digital Geospatial Metadata
	Metadata Standard Version:  2.0
	Metadata Access Constraints:  None
	Metadata Use Constraints:  None
	Metadata Security Information:  
		Metadata Security Classification:  Unclassified
