Identification Information:  
	Citation:  
		Citation Information:  
			Originator:  Seafloor Mapping Lab- California State University Monterey Bay
			Publication Date:  Unpublished Material
			Publication Time:  Unknown
			Title:  gma_sym_teale
			Geospatial Data Presentation Form:  view
	Description:  
		Abstract:  This California continental shelf geologic data set represents the current state of knowledge about the distribution of seafloor substrate types for the entire California continental shelf.  The data series is comprised of seven adjacent, but discrete map sections. Boundaries of seafloor geology type are depicted as polygon themes.
		Purpose:  This project created digital GIS format versions of California continental shelf geology hardcopy maps originally produced by the Division of Mines and Geology, the U.S. Geological Survey and the California Coastal Commission. In addition, geologic and bathymetric data were interpreted further to produce polygons representing habitat boundaries.
		Supplemental Information:  Original data developed by the Division of Mines and Geology, the U.S. Geological Survey and the California Coastal Commission. The principle purpose of the original DMG/USGS/CCC study was to acquire and compile all readily available geologic data for the California continental margin in a standard format. These nondigital data were presented as paper planimetric map sheets (NOAA/NOS 1:250,000 scale). For the current project, original mylars used to produce the geologic map series were scanned, and the resulting rasters were cleaned, georeferenced (UTM Zone 10 or 11, WGS84), and vectorized using TNTmips GIS software. Vector polygons and lines were then attributed and exported in ArcView shapefile format. Data covers an area from Mexico north to Oregon and from the California coastline west to the edge of the continental margin.
	Time Period of Content:  
		Time Period Information:  
			Multiple Dates/Times:  
				Single Date/Time:  
					Calendar Date:  3/31/2001
				Single Date/Time:  
					Calendar Date:  1987
		Currentness Reference:  publication date
	Status:  
		Progress:  Complete
		Maintenance and Update Frequency:  None planned
	Keywords:  
		Theme:  
			Theme Keyword Thesaurus:  Geology Map Series Thesaurus
			Theme Keyword:  geologic features
			Theme Keyword:  marine
			Theme Keyword:  GIS
			Theme Keyword:  ephemeral
			Theme Keyword:  structural
			Theme Keyword:  habitat
			Theme Keyword:  subsurface
			Theme Keyword:  digital
			Theme Keyword:  mapping
			Theme Keyword:  symbology
			Theme Keyword:  seafloor
	Access Constraints:  To be determined by the California Department of Fish and Game.
	Use Constraints:  To be determined by the California Department of Fish and Game.
	Point of Contact:  
		Contact Information:  
			Contact Organization Primary:  
				Contact Organization:  Center for Habitat Studies
			Contact Address:  
				Address Type:  mailing address
				Address:  Moss Landing Marine Laboratories
					8272 Moss Landing Rd.
				City:  Moss Landing
				State or Province:  California
				Postal Code:  95039
				Country:  USA
			Contact Voice Telephone:  (831) 633-7268 (Habitat Studies)
			Contact Facsimile Telephone:  (831) 633-7268 (Habitat Studies)
			Contact Electronic Mail Address:  greene@mlml.calstate.edu
	Browse Graphic:  
	Data Set Credit:  Symbology developed and processed by the Center for Habitat Studies at Moss Landing Marine Laboratories.
Data Quality Information:  
	Lineage:  
		Source Information:  
			Source Citation:  
				Citation Information:  
					Originator:  Center for Habitat Studies
					Title:  Custom symbology
					Other Citation Details:  Based on Arcview v3.2 Font Palette, and High Logic
			Source Citation Abbreviation:  SYMB
		Source Information:  
			Source Citation:  
				Citation Information:  
					Originator:  ESRI
					Title:  ArcView GIS
					Edition:  3.2
					Series Information:  
						Series Name:  CA Dept of Conservation, Divisions of Mines and Geology
						Issue Identification:  Bulletin 207
			Source Citation Abbreviation:  AVGIS
		Process Step:  
			Process Description:  The following marker symbols are used for symbolizing structural layer: anticline, syncline, gas seeps, downthrown faults, upthrown faults, Miocene cuts, Pleistocene cuts, Pliocene cuts, Quaternary cuts, Holocene cuts, thrust fault active and thrust fault dormant. Markers were created from Arial and a modified Wingdings fonts in the Font Palette from the ArcView Symbol Palette. The Arial marker set was used symbolized the characters "U" (upthrown), "D" (downthrown), and "?" (queried). Wingdings font file (wingding.ttf) was modified using Font Creator Program v.3.0, High-Logic® to create anticline, syncline and gas seep fonts. The modified wingdings.ttf file was loaded into Window Fonts Font folder to be used in the ArcView Font Palette. The remaining symbols are found in ArcView default.avp and usgs.avp.
				
				Individual point theme layers were created for each set of symbols ( "U", "D", "?", anticline, syncline, Miocene cuts, etc). A final point theme layers containing all twelve symbols was created by merging the twelve sets of  point themes using X tools Extension in ArcView. 
				
				A Master avl (sym.avl) was created for the symbology themes. The sym.alv contain scale and angle of rotation parameters to be used specifically with the symbology layer. The scale is set at 1:250,000 and the "angle" field from the symbology layer attribute table is used to set the angle of rotation for the marker symbols in the sym.avl.  
				
				Areas 1 and 2 were merged into one single vector file using X tools Extension  in ArcView and imported into TNTmips 6.4 © 2000 MicroImages, Inc. to be reprojected from UTM Zone 11 to TealeAlbers.  Area 3-7 were merged into another vector file by the same method above and imported into TNT mips to be reprojected from UTM Zone 10 to Teale Albers projection parameters. Reprojected Teale Albers files were exported from TNT mips as ArcView shapefiles and merged in ArcView using X tools Extension. The final merge was done in ArcView in order to preserve the attributes on the tables.
			Process Date:  3/31/01
			Process Contact:  
				Contact Information:  
					Contact Person Primary:  
						Contact Person:  MiRa Park
						Contact Organization:  Center for Habitat Studies
					Contact Position:  GIS Analyst
					Contact Address:  
						Address Type:  mailing address
						Address:  Moss Landing Marine Laboratories
							8272 Moss Landing Rd.
						City:  Moss Landing
						State or Province:  California
						Postal Code:  95039
						Country:  USA
					Contact Voice Telephone:  (831) 633-7268 (Habitat Studies)
					Contact Facsimile Telephone:  (831) 632-4403 (fax)
					Contact Electronic Mail Address:  mi_park@monterey.edu
	Cloud Cover:  0
Spatial Data Organization Information:  
	Indirect Spatial Reference:  California Continental Shelf
	Direct Spatial Reference Method:  Vector
	Point and Vector Object Information:  
		SDTS Terms Description:  
			SDTS Point and Vector Object Type:  Point
			Point and Vector Object Count:  3046
Spatial Reference Information:  
	Horizontal Coordinate System Definition:  
		Planar:  
			Map Projection:  
				Map Projection Name:  Albers Conical Equal Area
				Albers Conical Equal Area:  
					Standard Parallel:  34
					Standard Parallel:  40.5
					Longitude of Central Meridian:  -120
					Latitude of Projection Origin:  0
					False Easting:  0
					False Northing:  -4000000
			Planar Coordinate Information:  
				Planar Coordinate Encoding Method:  Coordinate Pair
				Coordinate Representation:  
					Abscissa Resolution:  0
					Ordinate Resolution:  0
		Geodetic Model:  
			Horizontal Datum Name:  North American Datum of 1927
			Ellipsoid Name:  Clarke 1866
			Semi-major Axis:  6378206
			Denominator of Flattening Ratio:  294.9786982
Entity and Attribute Information:  
	Detailed Description:  
		Entity Type:  
			Entity Type Label:  Captured
		Attribute:  
			Attribute Label:  ANGLE
			Attribute Definition:  Angle of rotation parameters to be used specifically with the symbology layer. The scale is set at 1:250,000 and the "angle" field from the symbology layer attribute table is used to set the angle of rotation for the marker symbols in the sym.avl.
		Attribute:  
			Attribute Label:  SYMBOL
			Attribute Definition:  Marker symbols are used for symbolozing structural layer: anticline, syncline, gas seeps, downthrown faults, upthrown faults, Miocene cuts, Pleistocene cuts, Pliocene cuts, Quaternary cuts, Holocene cuts, thrust fault active and thrust fault dormant.
	Overview Description:  
		Entity and Attribute Overview:  Point theme layers were created in ArcView 3.2 to represent the symbology used in the  "Geology of the California Continental Margin" (USGS Bulletin 207 and Maps of Areas 1-7, sheets 1 of 4).
Metadata Reference Information:  
	Metadata Date:  3/31/2001
	Metadata Review Date:  
	Metadata Future Review Date:  
	Metadata Contact:  
		Contact Information:  
			Contact Person Primary:  
				Contact Person:  Carrie Bretz
				Contact Organization:  Seafloor Mapping Lab, California State University Monterey Bay
			Contact Position:  GIS Analyst and Metadata Manager, Geology Map Series Project Manager
			Contact Address:  
				Address Type:  mailing and physical address
				Address:  California State University Monterey Bay, Institute for Earth Systems Science and Policy,100 Campus Center, Bldg 46A
				City:  Seaside
				State or Province:  CA
				Postal Code:  93955
				Country:  USA
			Contact Voice Telephone:  831-582-4197
			Contact Facsimile Telephone:  831-582-3073
			Contact Electronic Mail Address:  carrie_bretz@monterey.edu
	Metadata Standard Name:  FGDC Content Standards for Digital Geospatial Metadata
	Metadata Standard Version:  2.0
	Metadata Access Constraints:  None
	Metadata Use Constraints:  None
	Metadata Security Information:  
		Metadata Security Classification:  Unclassified
